Comments – Leeman et al., 2015 (Slow Earthquakes Manuscript).Overall, I think a lot of the content we want is here, but needs somere-ordering, and perhaps some rewriting to better emphasize the importance andbroad implications of the work, with less emphasis on technique or details ofinterest to rate-and-state friction aficionados. I’ve made some suggestionsalong these lines below.1.	Title: converge on a draft title for next iteration… “Slow Earthquakes as amanifestation of transitional frictional conditions”???2.	If we are aiming for Nature, Science, or Nature Geoscience, the firstparagraph/intro needs to have a very broad perspective. The current text is waytoo technically oriented and therefore does not effectively communicate thegeneral importance or big picture. I suggest re-framing the intro paragraph topitch the work to a broader audience (e.g., for general science readership, orto the colloquium audience – who cares and why?). My vote is to focus on theidea that transitional stability is widely invoked as an explanation for slowslip phenomena. This is defined in terms of K = ~Kc, and can occur via loweffective normal stress, large critical slip distance, or small (a-b). Forexample, high pore pressure and low stress are widely inferred to correlate withlocations of SSE and ETS; furthermore slow EQ seem to cluster at or near theboundaries of fault regions that fail by coseismic rupture and those that slipaseismically suggesting they are related to transitional behavior. Yet despitethe abundant indirect evidence for this idea, it has not been systematicallyinvestigated (only inferred from circumstantial evidence and theory – numericalmodels). As a secondary but important point I think we can raise the idea thatour work also highlights the potential importance of stiffness in governing themode of slip, and in the evolution of slip behaviors through the seismic cycleor with accumulated net fault slip/damage. But fundamentally the variation ofstiffness is just an experimental approach that allows us to control K vs. Kc,rather than a single variable of interest.3.	In section 2 (“Main”), in the vein of the above I think we need to be moreapproachable and less technique-oriented to explain the overallquestion/problem/approach. Perhaps re-order and re-frame as follows?    a.	Explain the importance and widespread observation of SSE, VLFE, ETS in    various tectonic environments (references here could include Linde, 1996;    Dragert et al., 2001; Ide et al., 2007; Ito & Obara, 2005, etc…).    b.	Explain RSF theory and background briefly – idea of stable, unstable states.    Stability threshold depends on (a-b), Dc, σn’, which define Kc, and/or system K.    c.	Then go in to our objective and experimental approach: We conducted a suite    of direct shear experiments using fine quartz gouge (Min-U-Sil), chosen    because…., to systematically investigate sliding behavior of experimental faults    as a function of nearness to this stability criterion (K<Kc). By using the same    gouge material for all experiments, RSF properties (e.g., a, b, Dc) remain    essentially constant for each of our experiments, and are controlled. We then    control the experimental stability regime by changing σn’ and K. The latter is    controlled by the use of three different configurations of forcing blocks.    d.	In order to define/measure the RSF parameters for each experiment, we use a    range of measurements. For many of our experiments (those in which K is high,    and as such they are stable), we use velocity steps to define constitutive    parameters (a, b, Dc) as functions of shear strain (these evolve with fabric and    therefore with strain). These parameters, in turn, define Kc. We assume that the    evolution of these material and layer properties is not dependent on the mode of    slip, and therefore we use the values measured on stably sliding experiments as    a framework for evaluating/comparing results from the suite of experiments.    e.	We define K of the aggregate system in two ways. First, in experiments that    stick-slip, we measure for each event.  Second, we conduct unload-reloads    regularly during the course of each shearing experiment. The two agree well.4.	Results/Discussion – seems like this should begin at or near the paragraphthat begins “In both determinations of stiffness…”. The text preceding that islikely to be substantially re-organized and rewritten in light of the above, butat least broadly speaking it seems that this is where we start talking aboutfindings. In a general sense, my philosophy for reporting results in papers isto start out with the most important, basic stuff. So I suggest:    a.	Mode of slip varies systematically with K. This is well explained by (totally    consistent) with a framework in which slip mode is governed by K/Kc.    b.	Peak velocity, or duration, also vary systematically with K/Kc.    c.	Both K and Kc, and thus mode of slip, also evolve with net slip. As layer    accumulates strain, it stiffens. At the same time, RSF parameters evolve as    strain localizes. This explains a rich variety of behaviors and experimental    observations – for example that stick slip does not occur until a critical    displacement is reached, because Kc is negative until the onset of rate    weakening behavior.    d.	Implications for natural faults – e.g., (i) supports previous ideas about    roles of transitional friction properties (low [a-b]), low normal stress (Audet    et al., Song et al., Kitajima & Saffer; SAF refs – Shelley et al., recent tidal    forcing paper for VLF on deep SAF),  (ii) potential effects of fault evolution    and aging (e.g. Ikari et al., 2011).5.	The paragraph about working stiffness (‘Stiffnesses recovered from theloading portion of individual stick-slip events…”) can probably be cut.6.	Figure 3 could be supplementary7.	Equation (1) is true for units of Kc as 1/L. But something is lost here whenwe want to make the link to real world observations and the large body of workthat suggests that slow EQ may be due to low normal stress. Our results actuallycorroborate that interpretation, and the link will be easier to make if we framethings in terms of Kc and K with units of Stress/Length.8.	As noted above, the point made in the paragraph immediately following Figure3 (“Our observations…”) should be drawn out and introduced much earlier. That,and Figure 4-5, are the really exciting results.9.	 I don’t quite follow the paragraph and argument about patch sizes on p. 4.The patch size seems similar for all of our experiments, whether they exhibitslow or fast stick-slip, so the connection to / importance of/ VLF patch sizesis hard to see.10.	In figure 5, might be better to show Kc as an envelope or plotting the meanor a best-fit curve somehow. I also think it would be useful to include a panelshowing one of the plots from your AGU poster with peak slip velocity orduration. Although not perfectly correlated, there is a clear connection betweenK and “slowness” that provides one explanation for how one could get therichness of observed slip behaviors.